# good sentences collection 2021

## Capitol Riots in January 6th
### A proud white nationalist
    Richard Barnett, of Arkansas, described himself on Facebook as a proud white nationalist. Self-Described White Nationalist who posed at Pelosi's Desk said he's ready for ....
    I saw the word white nationalist being used by Nancy Pelosias if it was a derogatory ([dɪˈrɑgətɔri] adj.  贬低的; 贬义的;) term. You know words are a funny thing. So many of them are stolen to represent what they are not. For example, this party that calls themselves Democrat are actually attempting to destroy Democracy. Or Black Lives Matter. They have proven over and over that black lives aren't actually important to them.  Now we have a term that fits me and many others and they try to turn it bad. I am white. There is no denying that. I am a natinalist. I put my nation first. So that makes me a white nationalist. Now I happen to have friends that are black, brown, cream, etc. that are also nationalist. So wow! Black nationalists, brown nationalists, creamy nationalists, lily white nationalists! Fucking A we are nationalists. You aren't? Then get the fuck out of our nation.
    We will not back down.
### Secretary Pompeo
    We've stood by our friends in Taiwan. Over the past 3 years the Trump Administration authorized more than $15 billion in arms sales to Taiwan. The Obama Administration? $14 billion dollors in sales over 8 years. #DoTheMath
    Pence was planning to attend Biden inauguration (就职典礼) but awaiting invitation.
### CMG calls on U.S. to protect reporters in Capitol Hill
    China Media Group (CMG) has called on the U.S. to ensure the safety of journalists on the ground after member of the media covering the Captitol Hill events in Washington, D.C. on Wednesday were attacked by demonstrators. Below is the full text of the statement issued by CMG's bureau of international exchanges on Thursday:
    We were shocked to learn that on the afternoon of January 6th local time, many news outlets, including CGTN America, were attacked by demonstrators at their usual live positions outside Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C. The scene was a mess. Fortunately, reporters from these media are all safe and sound. We express our sympathy to the reporters on the front line, are maintaining contact with CGTN America and taking necessary safety measures for the reporters. We also call on the U.S. to take necessary measures to ensure the safety of reporters.
    Equipment of media crews damaged during clashes after U.S. President Donald Trump's supporters breached the U.S. Capitol Hill security in Washington, D.C., U.S., January 6th, 2021.
### Coup at home. Mob Attack, Incited 煽动 by Trump, Delays Election Certification
    Due to travel restrictions this year the United States had to organize the coup ( [kuː] n.  政变; 妙招;努力办到难办的事) at home.
    Trump supporters storm (闯；大发雷霆；突袭；攻占) U.S. Capitol, Clash with Police
    America usually creates this kind of chaos abroad, not at home.
    House Speaker Nancy Pelosi called for President Trump's immediate removal from office by invoking (vt.  乞灵，祈求; 提出或授引…以支持或证明; 召鬼; 借助) the 25th Amendament, a day after the president's supporters stormed the Capitol in an assault on American democracy.
    Truly thinking the election was rigged (用不正当手段操纵,控制; (为欺骗目的而)事先决定[安排])

    We are deeply troubled by Wednesday’s attack on the US Capitol, which demonstrated clearly the destructive impact of sustained, deliberate distortion of facts, and incitement 煽动 to violence and hatred by political leaders. Allegations 辩解，声明 of electoral fraud  欺诈; 骗子; 伪劣品; 冒牌货 have been invoked to try to undermine the right to political participation. We are encouraged to see that the process has continued in spite of serious attempts to disrupt it. We call on leaders from across the political spectrum, including the President of the United States, to disavow 不承认，抵赖，拒绝对…承担责任 false and dangerous narratives, and encourage their supporters to do so as well. We note with dismay 惊恐; 焦虑; 哀伤 the serious threats and destruction of property faced by media professionals yesterday. We support calls from many quarters 群体，人( quarter的名词复数 ) for a thorough investigation into Wednesday’s events.
### the Walt Disney company, CEO, Bob Chapek
    Yesterday was a sad and tragic day for our country, one unlike any other in our history. What we saw was an egregious ( [ɪˈɡridʒəs, -dʒiəs] 极端的,异乎寻常,触目惊心的) and inexcusable ( 不可原谅的，不可宽恕的) assault on America's most revered ( [rɪ'vɪrd] v.  崇敬，尊崇，敬畏) institution and our democracy. Thankfully, the democratic process that we hold dear (adv.  高价地) ultimately prevailed (v.  流行，盛行; 被接受，战胜; 说服，劝说). Now, more than ever, it is imperative (adj.  必要的，不可避免的; 命令的，专横的; 势在必行的) that we come together as one nation - united by our shared values, including decency ( 正派; 正直; 体面), kindness, and respect for others. We should seize this opportunity, and move ahead with optimism (乐观) and hope for a better, brighter future for all of America.